CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Pixi Kernel is free and open source software developed under an MIT license. Development occurs at
the [GitHub project](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel). Contributions are welcome.

Bug reports and feature requests may be made directly on the
[issues](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel/issues) tab.

To make a pull request, you will need to fork the repo, clone the repo, make the changes, run the
tests, push the changes, and [open a PR](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel/pulls).

## Cloning the repo

To make a local copy of Pixi Kernel, clone the repository with git:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel.git
```

## Installing from source

Pixi Kernel uses Poetry as its packaging and dependency manager. In whatever Python environment you
prefer, install Poetry and then use Poetry to install Pixi Kernel and its dependencies:

```shell
pip install poetry
poetry install
```

## Testing and code quality

Pixi Kernel uses pytest to run the tests in the `tests/` directory. To run them as well as the
linters and formatters, use `nox`:

```shell
poetry run nox
```

This will try to test with all compatible Python versions that `nox` can find and use Ruff to
ensure a minimum standard of code quality.

## Making a release

1. Bump
   1. Increment version in `pyproject.toml`
   2. Commit with message "Bump version number to X.Y.Z"
   3. Push commit to GitHub
   4. Check [CI](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel/actions/workflows/ci.yml) to ensure
      all tests pass
2. Tag
   1. Tag commit with "vX.Y.Z"
   2. Push tag to GitHub
   3. Wait for [build](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel/actions/workflows/release.yml)
      to finish
   4. Check [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/pixi-kernel/) for good upload
3. Document
   1. Create [GitHub release](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel/releases) with name
      "Pixi Kernel X.Y.Z" and major changes in body

Commit message:

feat: switch from Poetry and Nox to Pixi

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Pixi Kernel is free and open source software developed under an MIT license. Development occurs at
the [GitHub project](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel). Contributions are welcome.

Bug reports and feature requests may be made directly on the
[issues](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel/issues) tab.

To make a pull request, you will need to fork the repo, clone the repo, make the changes, run the
tests, push the changes, and [open a PR](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel/pulls).

## Cloning the repo

To make a local copy of Pixi Kernel, clone the repository with git:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel.git
```

## Installing from source

Pixi Kernel uses Pixi as its packaging and dependency manager. Install Pixi and then use it to
install Pixi Kernel and its dependencies:

```shell
pixi install
```

## Testing and code quality

Pixi Kernel uses pytest to run the tests in the `tests/` directory. To run them as well, use:

```shell
pixi run test
```

You can also run the tests for a particular Python version:

```shell
pixi run -e py38 test-py38
```

## Code quality

Pixi Kernel uses Ruff to ensure a minimum standard of code quality. The code quality commands are
encapsulated with Pixi:

```shell
pixi run format
pixi run lint
```

## Making a release

1. Bump
   1. Increment version in `pyproject.toml` and in `pixi.toml`
   2. Commit with message "Bump version number to X.Y.Z"
   3. Push commit to GitHub
   4. Check [CI](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel/actions/workflows/ci.yml) to ensure
      all tests pass
2. Tag
   1. Tag commit with "vX.Y.Z"
   2. Push tag to GitHub
   3. Wait for [build](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel/actions/workflows/release.yml)
      to finish
   4. Check [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/pixi-kernel/) for good upload
3. Document
   1. Create [GitHub release](https://github.com/renan-r-santos/pixi-kernel/releases) with name
      "Pixi Kernel X.Y.Z" and major changes in body
